---
layout: post
title: A Layman's Introduction to Git
---


<div class="message">
  You need Git! And if you think you don't, allow me to convince you otherwise!
</div>

Now if this is the first time you've read ( or heard ) about Git, don't worry, it's never a bad time to start. Git, at its core is a filing system for every version of a text document, a Version Control System (as it is popularly known in the wild!). Now I know that was a sentence with a lot of complicated words and it might have made no sense to you. So let me put it in a way that I usually understand concepts better, with an example! But first! A Disclaimer: there is an overwhelming majority of programmers in the git community and thus a lot of technical blogs. So instead of adding another blog to the sea, I am focusing on the non-technical, the philosophical aspect of Git.
So for instance, you start writing a book, and gradually you trudge along and make progress. The typical workflow of a book is `< Draft 1 -> Draft 2 -> .. Draft n -> Publish >`  . Now what do you do if you want to go back to a draft and start back from there or you want to see what changes have been made since a draft. There is no product as powerful as git in solving these problems. You can save snapshots of your progress regularly, lets call these snapshots <b>drafts</b>. You can back to a draft, see the changes made between different drafts, log your progress and if you get adventurous you can even write each chapter as a complete book in its own and then merge it in the end (Check out branches in git). Now, given that git was originally meant for programmers, it does have a slight learning curve, but once you are up to par the possibilities are endless!

So Anirudh, I hear you say, "I am convinced!, but where do I start!", to that I say jump aboard!
Git can be really powerful when used in a terminal, but you don't need a gun to kill a mosquito, so instead we will shift out attention to Github. A website that is built on git, and does all that git does with a clean and shiny user interface.
The repositories panel on the right of the Github website refers to your projects. You can create new projects and upload documents from your computer.
The issue with Github is you need to pay to have private projects, projects by default are public and anyone can visit your profile and view your project.

A better alternative is to have a git repository (project) on your local computer, but that is a little technical to set up and if you aren't afraid to face a terminal, sit tight, the next post will guide you through setting a local git repository and finding your bearings in the git forest!
