---
layout: post
title: I am Unhappy and thats fine!
categories: non-technical
---
I read this <a href="http://theoatmeal.com/comics/unhappy">comic strip</a> by <a href="http://theoatmeal.com"> Matthew Inman </a> a little while ago and it spoke about being unhappy. I could not relate with it at the time but now that I do, I will give you my take on being "UNHAPPY"!
To give you a little context, I joined <a href="http://gojekengineering.com/">Go-Jek</a> right out of college about two weeks ago and have learned more things than I could in four years of college! The past two weeks have been a whirlwind of writing code and discussing complex abstract topics and writing blogs!

It has been hectic and exhausting, and if you asked me "Anirudh, are you happy?", I would probably say "YES" but to tell you the truth, I am NOT!
But I won't tell you this, because then you would think that I am miserable and in depression and need to see a doctor! If I am perfectly honest, I've never felt happiness, I've felt joy, when I landed a job, got into college or went on a spontaneous road trip with friends. But these feelings were temporary, happiness on the other hand implies permanence, you don't need anything more in life, You have Arrived!

So, I am not happy because that is not the feeling I want to have, I want to learn, I want to grow and happiness implies you've already succeeded, but I have a long way to go. For the past two weeks I have been writing code for hours at a time, have learned two new languages and have started to blog! Through all of this I have been miserable, my fingers ache from all of the typing, my head hurts but I keep doing it because I find these things meaningful, I am fascinated, I am building things and the reward at the end is worth all the effort.

My eyes are hurting now as I write this blog, I am sleepy and I am suffering, because this is hard for me, but I do this because I want to get better at it, I want to share my thoughts and thats what keeps me going. I do these things because I am interested and fascinated, I want to grow and improve. I'm not unhappy, I am just busy and thats OK!
{% raw %}
<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/Ebys71phzQQx2" width="480" height="267" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://giphy.com/gifs/adventure-time-work-jake-the-dog-Ebys71phzQQx2">via GIPHY</a></p>
{% endraw %}
